docs/devlog.md, before:

# Dev Log
Total Time: 46.5hrs

### TODO:
- [ ] BUG: Theme music drops on add_score (use specific channels?)
- [ ] Update README.md with theme/thanks
- [ ] Publish?

**Potental Token Savings (Only if Needed)**
- [ ] DRY up cloud + fence
- [ ] String/split fence sprite data (all sprite data?)
- [ ] Delete DEBUGs

---

## Daily Notes

### Day 11: 2025-10-22
- Time worked: 4.5hrs
- Continued tweaking gate spawing for difficulty
- Finished revisiting game difficulty tweaking; as always more playtesting wont hurt
- Deleted `difficulty.md` 
- Fixed bug: One of the cloud sprites is screwed up
- Iterated on theme by making a successful gate pass an "approved" stamp; collision is an "entry denied" stamp
- Updated sound effects
 

### Day 10: 2025-10-21
- Time worked: 2hrs
- Moved DEBUG into each module for slightly more finite control
- Improved logging for difficulty curve
- WIP: Tweaking gate spawning for difficulty


### Day 9: 2025-10-16

- Time: 3hrs
- Working on translating the Papers Please theme into PICO-8
- Working with triplets in PICO-8 is not fun!
- Completed sequencing of bass and lead
- WIP: Experiment with instruments, integrate into title sequence


### Day 8: 2025-10-15 

- Time worked: 4.5hrs
- Fixed bug where gate shadow disappeared too early
- Refactored state management (states.lua)
- Made a way to render the custom title screen fonts (font.lua)
- Added text and animation to title screen
- Simple input manager to detect button onpress/onrelease (input.lua)
- Refactored player input to use input manager
- Updated game over screen with new type and outlined text
- Fixed ground collision to behaves the same as gate collision
- Added very basic high score tracking with cartdata



### Day 7: 2025-10-14

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Implemented ground and fence visuals
- Implemented gate visuals: banner, checkpoint/gate, shadow, bricks, etc
- Implemented synamic buildings and windows
- Updated clouds to appear above buildings
- Quick analysis: I've spent about 15 hours (~50% of current time, %25 of total project) on the visual elements of the gameplay. I don't have title states done, but this is good to note for future projects. Up next: title screen.

### Day 6: 2025-10-13

- Time worked: 3.5hrs
- Polish graphics for title screen
- Testing and implementing "Secret" color pallet in game
- Fix: Bird sprite
- WIP: Implementing ground, fence, cracks, barbed wire

### Day 5: 2025-10-10 

- Time worked: 7hrs
- [x] Mountains background w/ parallax
- [x] SFX: Flapping, collisions, point scored
- Chasing an potentially funny aestetic wild hair based on "Papers Please"
- Ok, it was worth it. [Mockup](/art/flappy-arstotzka.png)

### Day 4: 2025-10-09

- Time worked: 3hrs
- [x] Finish sprite states
- [x] Pipe art rendering
- [x] Player hitbox refactor
- [x] Sky and clouds background (parallax)

### Day 3: 2025-10-08

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Continue work on difficulty slope
    - Updating notes/thoughts in `difficulty.md`
    - Randomize gate sizing (w/h) scaled with difficulty
    - Simplified Y placement for now
    - Gate spawn time more dynamic
- On screen debugging
- Created a "moving" floor
- Updated `draw_sprite` to accept a transparent color number
- Add bird sprites to spritesheet
- EOD status: WIP on player sprite
    - State currently working but sprite position is always 0,0

### Day 2: 2025-09-29

- Time worked: 4hrs
- Code review/small refactors
- Researching game difficulty curves
- Began integrating difficulty slope
- Introduced constants for easy gameplay tweaking `constants.lua`
- EOD status: WIP on the difficulty slope
    - Game speed: Done
    - Gate spawning: Not done
    - Gate height: Broken
    - Gate width: Broken


### Day 1: 2025-09-28

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Created temporary simple player sprite
- Create player object
- Created function to draw sprites based on object properties
- Simple gravity system in `gravity_system.lua`
- Added player input / flap
- Changed mind and removed gravity system in favor of letting the player handle its own gravity
- Limited the upward velocity possible
- Simple "gap" (pipe pairs) object
- Refactor: Gap -> Gates with gate spawning functionality
- Add gate collision and passing logic
- Add game state management and reset logic
- Added score tracking and display
- Refactor: Gate collision check into its own function
- Added game over message

Commit message:

updated readme with game fiction and acknowledgements

docs/devlog.md, after:

# Dev Log
Total Time: 46.5hrs

**Potental Token Savings (Only if Needed)**
- [ ] DRY up cloud + fence
- [ ] String/split fence sprite data (all sprite data?)
- [ ] Delete DEBUGs

---

## Daily Notes

### Day 12: 2025-10-23
- Attempted (successful?) fix for prioritizing sfx
- Updated readme with some game fiction and acknowledgements

### Day 11: 2025-10-22
- Time worked: 4.5hrs
- Continued tweaking gate spawing for difficulty
- Finished revisiting game difficulty tweaking; as always more playtesting wont hurt
- Deleted `difficulty.md` 
- Fixed bug: One of the cloud sprites is screwed up
- Iterated on theme by making a successful gate pass an "approved" stamp; collision is an "entry denied" stamp
- Updated sound effects
 

### Day 10: 2025-10-21
- Time worked: 2hrs
- Moved DEBUG into each module for slightly more finite control
- Improved logging for difficulty curve
- WIP: Tweaking gate spawning for difficulty


### Day 9: 2025-10-16

- Time: 3hrs
- Working on translating the Papers Please theme into PICO-8
- Working with triplets in PICO-8 is not fun!
- Completed sequencing of bass and lead
- WIP: Experiment with instruments, integrate into title sequence


### Day 8: 2025-10-15 

- Time worked: 4.5hrs
- Fixed bug where gate shadow disappeared too early
- Refactored state management (states.lua)
- Made a way to render the custom title screen fonts (font.lua)
- Added text and animation to title screen
- Simple input manager to detect button onpress/onrelease (input.lua)
- Refactored player input to use input manager
- Updated game over screen with new type and outlined text
- Fixed ground collision to behaves the same as gate collision
- Added very basic high score tracking with cartdata



### Day 7: 2025-10-14

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Implemented ground and fence visuals
- Implemented gate visuals: banner, checkpoint/gate, shadow, bricks, etc
- Implemented synamic buildings and windows
- Updated clouds to appear above buildings
- Quick analysis: I've spent about 15 hours (~50% of current time, %25 of total project) on the visual elements of the gameplay. I don't have title states done, but this is good to note for future projects. Up next: title screen.

### Day 6: 2025-10-13

- Time worked: 3.5hrs
- Polish graphics for title screen
- Testing and implementing "Secret" color pallet in game
- Fix: Bird sprite
- WIP: Implementing ground, fence, cracks, barbed wire

### Day 5: 2025-10-10 

- Time worked: 7hrs
- [x] Mountains background w/ parallax
- [x] SFX: Flapping, collisions, point scored
- Chasing an potentially funny aestetic wild hair based on "Papers Please"
- Ok, it was worth it. [Mockup](/art/flappy-arstotzka.png)

### Day 4: 2025-10-09

- Time worked: 3hrs
- [x] Finish sprite states
- [x] Pipe art rendering
- [x] Player hitbox refactor
- [x] Sky and clouds background (parallax)

### Day 3: 2025-10-08

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Continue work on difficulty slope
    - Updating notes/thoughts in `difficulty.md`
    - Randomize gate sizing (w/h) scaled with difficulty
    - Simplified Y placement for now
    - Gate spawn time more dynamic
- On screen debugging
- Created a "moving" floor
- Updated `draw_sprite` to accept a transparent color number
- Add bird sprites to spritesheet
- EOD status: WIP on player sprite
    - State currently working but sprite position is always 0,0

### Day 2: 2025-09-29

- Time worked: 4hrs
- Code review/small refactors
- Researching game difficulty curves
- Began integrating difficulty slope
- Introduced constants for easy gameplay tweaking `constants.lua`
- EOD status: WIP on the difficulty slope
    - Game speed: Done
    - Gate spawning: Not done
    - Gate height: Broken
    - Gate width: Broken


### Day 1: 2025-09-28

- Time worked: 5hrs
- Created temporary simple player sprite
- Create player object
- Created function to draw sprites based on object properties
- Simple gravity system in `gravity_system.lua`
- Added player input / flap
- Changed mind and removed gravity system in favor of letting the player handle its own gravity
- Limited the upward velocity possible
- Simple "gap" (pipe pairs) object
- Refactor: Gap -> Gates with gate spawning functionality
- Add gate collision and passing logic
- Add game state management and reset logic
- Added score tracking and display
- Refactor: Gate collision check into its own function
- Added game over message
